# Changelog
## [3.2.0] - 10/28/2025
Changes
### Changes
- Updated Mojang path from the Universal Windows Platform (UWP) over to the Game Development Kit (GDK) platform target.
---
## [3.1.1] - 7/15/2024
Fixes
### Fixes
- Fixed issue where commands that accepted a number argument were failing to parse the number correctly.
- Fixed issue where `bed new item` was failing to automatically infer the `basic` type argument.
---
## [3.1.0] - 7/9/2024
Updates, Added Commands
### Updates
- Internal improvements to command registry.
- `bed new project` now adds a `skin_pack` folder with placeholder entries to `Content`, and a `.vscode/launch.json` file.
### Aliases
- `bed project new` is now an alias of `bed new project`.
- `bed entity new` is now an alias of `bed new entity`.
- `bed new world` is now an alias of `bed world new`.
---
## [3.0.12] - 6/12/2024
Updates, Added Command
### Updates
- Updated `bed new item -t attachable` to use nametag attacker checks by default in the animation controller.
- Updated `bed new item -t attachable` to create first person attack and idle animations that negate the vanilla punch animation.
---
## [3.0.11] - 6/10/2024
Updates, Added Command
### Updates
- Updated `bed new item -t armor_set|helmet|chestplate|leggings|boots` to properly add the attachable, texture, and geometry files required to render armor in game. And fixed bugs related to the `armor_set` failing to generate textures and lang entries for the subtypes.
### Additions
- Added `bed project install` which creates a symlink (`Junction`) between your project packs and Minecraft's development behavior and resource pack folders, keeping your project in sync. Note that if you sync projects this way, changing branches via Git *can* unlink your folders so double-check that the link is preserved before testing in-game.
---
## [3.0.10] - 5/22/2024
Updates
### Updates
- Updated `bed new item -t attachable` to use a different animation controller setup for attachables which prevents desyncs from the player animation if holding down interact.
---
## [3.0.9] - 5/6/2024
Updates, Fixes
### Updates
- Updated `bed new item -t attachable` to use adjusted file generation in accordance with artist's feedback.
- Updated `bed new item -t attachable` to stop using the interact button component for more consistent item interaction behaviors.
### Fixes
- Fixes issue where entities created in subfolders would be structured incorrectly.
- Fixes issue where `bed entity property` wouldn't automatically include namespaces in the config file.
---
## [3.0.8] - 4/17/2024
Added Command
### Added
- Added command `bed new project` which generates a new project in the `Content/world_template` format.
---
## [3.0.7] - 4/17/2024
Changes, Actions
### Changes
- Player animations generated with `bed new item --type attachable` now set `override_previous_animation` to true.
- The docs folder has been removed in favor of using the wiki, the changelog path has been moved to the root in accordance with this change.
### Actions
- Added merge checks ensuring typescript compiles successfully and several commands still work without error.
- Added automatic documentation publishing.
- Added a notification pass to Discord on release.
---
## [3.0.5] - 4/15/2024
Fixes
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where attachables generated by the `bed new item --type attachable` command would cause the attachable file to reference the first person idle where it should've referenced the first person fix animation.
---
## [3.0.4] - 4/5/2024
Fixes
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where version check was a version behind the published package.
- Fixed issue where armor generated by the `bed new item --type armor-set` command didn't provide the protection level.
---
## [3.0.3] - 4/5/2024
Fixes
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where exports where not provided to the api.
---
## [3.0.2] - 4/4/2024
Fixes
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where attachable items were being generated without the `minecraft:use_modifiers` component.
---
## [3.0.1] - 4/4/2024
Fixes
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where items were generated with an invalid cooldown object.
- Fixed issue where geometry files created from template didn't include the namespace.
- Fixed issue where attachable items interact text weren't generating a lang entry correctly.
---
## [3.0.0] - 4/2/2024
Major Refactor
### Changed
- The project has been updated from `commonJS` to `ES2020`.
- Types inheriting from `MinecraftDataType` have been created for all major JSON file types in a Minecraft project. This provide methods for reading and writing files and helpful functions unique to each object type like `ServerEntity`'s `setComponents` method.
- The `pkg` command has been removed.
- The vanilla files have been added as a git submodule, and packaged locally with this module, this removes uneccesary web calls to download vanilla files from GitHub.
- The `entity property event` and `entity property add` commands have been combined into the single command `entity property` which provided options for generating events alongside created properties.
- The `sound format` command has been removed. The `sound_definitions.json` file is now automatically formatted whenever a new sound is added with `new sound`. In the future a new `sound` command will be added to the `format` subcommand.
- The `entity group`, `entity component`, and `entity sensor` commands now contain optional arguments for the group, component, and sensor respectively. If the argument is not provided, Notepad will be opened and the contents of notepad will be used as the group, component, or sensor string. This does not require escaping the `"` character which makes it much simpler to paste in JSON.
- The `world` commands now work correctly with Minecraft 1.20.70+, which use a different NBT buffer.
- The `world packs` and `world new` commands now have an optional `--local` flag which will use the packs in your local workspace instead of needing to provide names with the `--bpback <name>` and `--rpack <name>` arguments.
- The `world packs` and `world export` now have an optional `--world <name|index>` argument that specifies what world should be targeted. If the argument is not provided the command will list your local worlds for selection. This avoids the need to call `world list` to get the right index before calling `world packs` or `world export`.
- The `format addon` command has been added. This command creates the config file required for addons to work. Eventually it will update an old project format into addon format, but that isn't implemented yet.
- The `bedrock.config.json` file with the key `addon_namespace` for the project to use the addon format. Alternatively, the `--addon <namespace>` argument can be added to any command. When using a config file or the `--addon` argument, new files should **not** have the namespace prefix included on the command line, the namespaces will be automatically created.
- The `new item --type attachable` command no longer modifies the `player.entity.json` file.
---
## [2.2.5] - 3/6/2024
Fixed Attachable Creation
### Changed
- Attachable items now create the entry `v.<name> = v.is_paperdoll ? 0 :(q.is_item_name_any('slot.weapon.mainhand', 0, '<name>');` instead of `v.<name> = (q.get_equipped_item_name == '<name>');`
---
## [2.2.3] - 12/13/2023
File Generation Update
### Changed
- Items now generate with format version 1.20.30.
- BP item files now use the `minecraft:icon` and `minecraft:display_name` properties. The RP item file is no longer generated.
- Armor Items are now generated with the 1.20.30 format verison and properties as opposed to the experimental **Holidy Creator** options.
---
## [2.2.2] - 8/23/2023
Bug Fixes
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where `bed new item --type [armor_set | chestplate]` would generate with an incorrect enchantment slot for chestpieces.
---
## [2.2.1] - 8/6/2023
Bug Fixes, New Arguments, New Command
### Changes
- The `bed new sound` command now performs the same formatting process as the new command `bed sounds format` after adding new sounds.
- The `bed new item --type [armor_set | helmet | chestplate | leggings | boots]` command now creates armor set resource assets in formats that are easier for artists to modify.
### Added
- The `bed entity group --overwrite` argument has been added, changing the behavior from **merging** the new group with an old group of that name to **replacing** an old group of that name with the new group.
- The `bed entity group --no-add` argument has been added, using this argument prevents the `bed entity group` command from automatically generating an `add_group` event.
- The `bed entity group --no-remove` argument has been added, using this argument prevents the `bed entity group` command from automatically generating a `remove_group` event.
- The `bed sounds format` command has been added, allowing quick formatting of the `sound_definitions.json` file; alphabetizing the sounds, adding in default volume and pitch arguments, and enforcing that at least one sound in the list will have `load_on_low_memory: true`.
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where `bed new item --type [armor_set | helmet | chestplate | leggings | boots]` would generate with some undesired values.
---
## [2.1.1] - 5/4/2023
Bug Fixes, Argument Change.
### Changed
- The `bed entity --type` argument has been changed from accepting a single string for \<family type\> to instead accept an array of strings \<family type...\>. For an entity to be selected by this filter it must include **all** of the provided family types.
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where `bed entity --type` would not work for most entity commands.
- Fixed issue where `bed entity group` would fail if used on an entity without an event property.
---
## [2.1.0] - 4/12/2023
New Command, Bug Fixes.
### Added
- The `bed new sound` command has been added, allowing quick creation of sound definitions.
### Changed
- The `bed -v` argument has been changed to `bed -V` to prevent a bug that would cause the `-v` arguments in `bed new sound` and `bed entity property add` to display the version rather than perform the command.
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where `bed new vanilla` no longer worked after a GitHub API update.
- Fixed issue where `bed new vanilla *.json` would only grab about 20 entities.
---
## [2.0.0] - 3/7/2023
Major refactoring, bug fixes, and improvements across the board.
### Added
- The `bed new entity --type projectile` option has been added. This will automatically create an entity that can be fired as a projectle.
- The `bed new item --type usable` option has been added. This will automatically create a new function, and a player animation controller that will invoke that function when using the item.
- The `bed new function --origin` option has been added, this provides a comment specifying who @s is withing the function context.
- The `bed world export --type` option has been added, and can be specified as `world` or `template` to create a `.mcworld` or `.mctemplate` file respectively.
- The `bed world new` subcommand now has the additional options: `--bpack`, `--rpack`, and `--experimental` to streamline the process of adding packs to a new world.
- Any command that writes a `.json` file now supports the `$n` keyword, replacing instances where `$n` appears with the filename. For example `bed entity --file **/*.json --overwrite {minecraft:type_family:{family:[\"$n\"]}}` would overwrite the family type of every entity in the project with the name of its file.
### Changed
- The `bed new entity --type` option has been updated to accept full words rather than single characters.
- The `bed new entity` command will now automatically create a placeholder spawn egg texture when used with the `passive` or `hostile` `--type` options.
- The `bed new item --type projectile` option now will automatically create a new projectile entity, a player animation controller to detect interacting with the item, and a component group to spawn the new projectile on the player. 
- The `bed world export` and `bed world packs` commands now accept either and index or a world name to target the world. When using a name, it will target the first name in the worlds folder who's levelname.txt file matches the argument.
- Any command that writes an entry to `en_US.lang` will no longer add an entry if that entry is already present in the file.
- Many functions exposed to the API have had their parameters re-written to use interfaces. This is a breaking change.
- The `bed new block --emissive` argument now accepts values `[1-15]` instead of `[0.0-1.0]` to match the new `minecraft:light_emission` key that replaced the old `minecraft:block_light_emission` in block files.
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where worlds created with `bed new world` always had a seed of 0.
- Fixed issue where temporary folders created with `bed new world` weren't properly cleaned up.
---
## [1.3.0] - 3/7/2023
Added world subcommands, bug fixes.
### Added
- The `bed world list` command.
- The `bed world export` command.
- The `bed world packs` command.
- The `bed world new` command.
- The `bed new block` command has the new option `--geo` which will create a block with custom geo.
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where `bed entity group` used with the `$` decorator when the source file didn't have the decorated component would result in th `$` still being used in the group name i.e. `$minecraft:type_family`.
---
## [1.2.1] - 3/7/2023
Bug Fixes.
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where `bed entity group` an `bed entity component` would fail to parse `.`, so components like `minecraft:behavior.anything` would fail.
---
## [1.2.0] - 3/7/2023
Added decorator to `bed entity group` command.
### Changed
- Creating a new component group with the `bed entity group` command now supports merging components from the source file. `bed entity group {new_group:{$minecraft:type_family:{family:[\"test\"]}}} --file` for example will create a new component group called `new_group` and will copy the existing family type from the file and append `test` to the end. You can specify a component should **merge** rather than overwrite by putting the `$` decorator in front of the component name.
---
## [1.1.3] - 3/7/2023
Bug fixes.
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where `bed new item --type attachable` would fail to add a transition back to the `no_item` state after adding multiple attachables.

---
## [1.1.2] - 3/3/2023
Bug fixes.
### Fixed
- Fixed issue where `bed pkg import` always wrote lang file changes to `en_US.lang` instead of the file on the package.

---
## [1.1.1] - 3/2/2023
Bug fixes.
### Fixed
- The version check was still checking the old CLI tool. Now it correctly checks your version for this project.
- The `bin` was not specified for this project, so it could not be run with `bed`.

---
## [1.1.0] - 3/2/2023
This version deprecates the standalone [CLI Tool](https://github.com/DauntlessStudio/Bedrock-Development-CLI) in favor of folding the CLI directly into this project.
### Added
- The CLI tool in its entirety, ported from [here](https://github.com/DauntlessStudio/Bedrock-Development-CLI).
- The `bed new entity` command has two new options: `--no-geo` and `--no-texture` wich prevents the command from making a new geo and texture file respectively when used with `--client`.
- The `bed new item`'s `type` option can accept a new value `attachable` which for now is identical to `weapon`, but in the future will create a basic item with an attachable, while weapon will create an item with damage values, durability, etc.'
- The `bed entity property add` command has a new option: `--event` which streamlines the old flow of running `bed entity property add` to create your properties, and `bed entity property event` to create events to set the values. Now adding `--event` will automatically add an event for every valid value a property can have (everything within its `range`, or everything in its `values`). Though you may still want to use `bed entity property event` if you want to create events that set the value to things like `q.property('property_name') + 1`.
### Changed
- All commands with a `--lang` option have been changed. Adding a lang entry is now the default, and the `--no-lang` has to be used if you don't want a lang entry.
- All commands with a `--file` option have been changed. `--file` is now a mandatory field, and the command cannot be run without it. Providing `--file` without a value still affects all entities, but making the option required should reduce the chance of accidentally affecting all entities in a project without meaning to.
- Updated documentation to have more details and additional examples.
### Fixed
- Fixed typos both in documenation and command help